Title: No, I Don't Want to Be a Professional Coder
Category: Technology
Tags: learning to code
Author: Me


I know how to code, yes. I want to continue to learn how to code. But there are plenty of opportunities to use code that don't involve doing it full-time, and there should be even more. It's become widely accepted that coding is the skill of the future, but that means it will become more important in everyone's job, not just that we need more professional developers. There are major benefits to organizations that can utilize staff who can integrate programming into their traditional duties.

I'll take APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces, as an example. As they become more prevalent it shouldn't be left to developers to use them to optimize products and services for an organization. Using APIs directly can save money over expensive third-party services. They're an easy way to obtain data on a wide variety of topics, if only someone can access them, and are just one way programming can be used outside of development teams. There's also things like JavaScript visualizations, Python data analysis, and basic database management, just to name a few.

Better communication and improved teamwork are also beneficial for organizations and can be helped by having more programmers around. Non-dev teams can make better use of technology if they know what's possible and have a rough idea what they need. Then there's the matter of lost productivity when developers or IT departments have to stop what they're doing to solve simple problems. They can be made more efficient at their own jobs if more people know more about code and how their computers work. It's a win-win situation. 

Now I know there's a large number of resumes to sort through for each job posting, but perhaps coding should be seen as a major bonus and not just an irrelevant skill. Odds are someone who's mastered programming will be quick to learn any other new skills and will have better problem-solving skills. If you're unsure, think of all the problems your company has recruiting and keeping quality full-time developers. At the very least hiring more non-devs who can handle some basic coding can take some of the pressure off the developers you have.

But on a personal level, please stop asking me if I want to be a developer. While tech can be a warm and welcoming place, there can sometimes be an emphasis on learning to code to completely change your career. Too many people feel like it's a skill only worth learning if they intend to be a full-time developer. It leads people to sometimes assume you want to change your career if you are learning to code. Nope, I'm proud to say that I don't want to be a professional developer, and I like to think the world would be a better place if there were more people like me.